# Numerologjia
First: Something about Numerology
Numerology is the pseudoscientific belief in a divine or mystical relationship between a number and one or more coinciding events. It is also the study of the numerical value of the letters in words, names, and ideas. It is often associated with the paranormal, alongside astrology and similar to divinatory arts.
Despite the long history of numerological ideas, the word "numerology" is not recorded in English before c. 1907. 
The term numerologist can be used for those who place faith in numerical patterns and draw pseudoscientific inferences from them, even if those people do not practice traditional numerology. For example, in his 1997 book Numerology: Or What Pythagoras Wrought, mathematician Underwood Dudley uses the term to discuss practitioners of the Elliott wave principle of stock market analysis.
The practice of gematria, assigning numerical values to words and names and imputing those values with religious meaning, dates back to antiquity. An Assyrian inscription from the 8th century BC, commissioned by Sargon II. declares "the king built the wall of Khorsabad 16,283 cubits long to correspond with the numerical value of his name."[3] Rabbinic literature used gematria to interpret passages in the Hebrew Bible.
In 325 AD, following the First Council of Nicaea, departures from the beliefs of the state church were classified as civil violations within the Roman Empire. Numerology, referred to as isopsephy, remained in use in conservative Greek Orthodox circles. Despite the church's resistance to numerology, there have been arguments made for the presence of numerology in the Bible and religious architecture. 
Some alchemical theories were closely related to numerology. For example, Persian-Arab alchemist Jabir ibn Hayyan framed his experiments in an elaborate numerology based on the names of substances in the Arabic language. 
Numerology is prominent in Sir Thomas Browne's 1658 literary Discourse The Garden of Cyrus. Throughout its pages, the author attempts to demonstrate that the number five and the related Quincunx pattern can be found throughout the arts, in design, and in nature – particularly botany.
Scientific theories are sometimes labeled "numerology" if their primary inspiration appears to be a set of patterns rather than scientific observations. This colloquial use of the term is quite common within the scientific community and it is mostly used to dismiss a theory as questionable science.
The best known example of "numerology" in science involves the coincidental resemblance of certain large numbers that intrigued such eminent men as mathematical physicist Paul Dirac, mathematician Hermann Weyl and astronomer Arthur Stanley Eddington.[8] These numerical coincidences refer to such quantities as the ratio of the age of the universe to the atomic unit of time, the number of electrons in the universe, and the difference in strengths between gravity and the electric force for the electron and proton. ("Is the Universe Fine Tuned for Us?", Stenger, V.J., page 3).
The discovery of atomic triads, an early attempt to sort the elements into some logical order by their physical properties, was once considered a form of numerology, and yet ultimately led to the construction of the periodic table. Here the atomic weight of the lightest element and the heaviest are summed, and averaged, and the average is found to be very close to that of the intermediate weight element. This did not work with every triplet in the same group, but worked often enough to allow later workers to create generalizations.
Large number co-incidences continue to fascinate many mathematical physicists.
Wolfgang Pauli was also fascinated by the appearance of certain numbers, including 137, in physics.
Have you ever found yourself gazing at the clock at exactly 11:11? Or wondering why you so frequently meet people born on the same day of the month? Or why your lucky number shows up in the most unexpected places? Numerology numbers make up a powerful, sacred system that goes back thousands of years. Using that system, Life Path Numbers and Destiny Numbers — among other basic numerology principles — can be easily calculated. As a professional astrologer, I use the principles of numerology to add dimensionality to my work. Whether I'm working with a client or writing horoscopes, calculating numerology is an incredible enhancement to mystical study.
Just as your astrology birth chart contains powerful metaphysical insight — the planets and zodiac signs are connected to specific attributes — the teachings of numerology can also offer insight on personality, future events, and even life's greater purpose.
Check out this month's Allure Beauty Box, which is packed with products hand-picked by our editors – all for only $15.
Allure chatted with Ophi Edut of the AstroTwins about the relationship between astrology and numerology. "Numerology is an awesome companion to astrology. It helps clarify the sign by providing additional nuance," Ophi explains, adding that numerology enhances your understanding of self by revealing not just how you express yourself, but where you output your inherent energy. For instance: "Numerology reveals the age of your soul. If you're a Leo sun with an 8 Life Path, you know that the Leo nature is being filtered more internally than externally."
Numerology is also a great tool for making sense of recurring digits. "With numerology, you can use specific pieces of information, such as a home address, to derive details," Ophi says. "You really start to see patterns everywhere."
Numerical repetition and synchronicity have been observed for thousands of years. Chaldean numerology is based on ancient Babylonian practices, and Kabbalistic studies of Jewish mysticism explore recurring digits within the Old Testament. In fact, many occultists believe that the appearance of 11:11 is connected to the tetragrammaton — the unpronounceable four-letter name for the God of Israel.
The numerology most frequently practiced today is based on the teachings of the ancient Greek philosopher, Pythagoras. Pythagoras was a brilliant mathematician, but he wasn't just interested in quantitative solutions. He believed that the physical world was the amalgamation of the energetic vibrations of numbers, and developed a system that corresponded letters with integers. This practice was a study of numerical interconnectivity — the belief that everything is aligned through non-physical forces best articulated through numbers.
Math can be intimidating. In fact, many are intimidated by numerology because, after one too many confusing tests in grade school, calculating digits isn't everyone's idea of a "good time." But I have great news: You don't need to be a math person to explore the magick of numerology. All it takes to start uncovering the mystical properties of numbers is a pen, paper, and some super simple arithmetic (or the nearest calculator).

